_your zenodo badge here_

# jones-etal_2023_scidata

**Climate projections for the continental United States based on thermodynamic modification of historic weather**

Andrew D. Jones<sup>1,2,*</sup>, Deeksha Rastogi<sup>3</sup>, Pouya Vahmani<sup>1</sup>, Alyssa M. Stansfield<sup>4,5</sup>, Kevin A. Reed<sup>4</sup>, Travis Thurber<sup>6</sup>, Paul A. Ullrich<sup>7</sup>, Jennie Rice<sup>8</sup>

<sup>1 </sup> Climate and Ecosystem Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory

<sup>2 </sup> Energy and Resources Group, University of CA, Berkeley

<sup>3 </sup> Computational Sciences and Engineering Division, Oak Ridge National Laboratory

<sup>4 </sup> School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, Stony Brook University

<sup>5 </sup> Department of Atmospheric Science, Colorado State University

<sup>6 </sup> Earth Systems Science Division, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory

<sup>7 </sup> Department of Land, Air, and Water Resources, University of CA, Davis

<sup>8 </sup> Atmospheric Sciences and Global Change Division, Pacific Northwest National Laboratory


\* corresponding author: Andrew D. Jones (adjones@lbl.gov)


## Abstract
Regional climate models can be used to examine how past weather events might unfold under different climate conditions by simulating analogue versions of those events with modified thermodynamic conditions (i.e., warming signals).  Here, we apply this approach by dynamically downscaling a 40-year sequence of past weather from 1980-2019 driven by atmospheric re-analysis, then repeat this 40-year sequence a total of 8 times with additional time-evolving thermodynamic warming signals that follow 4 80-year future warming trajectories from 2020-2099.  Warming signals follow two emission scenarios (SSP585 and SSP245),  and are derived from two groups of global climate models based on whether they exhibit high or low climate sensitivity.  The resulting dataset, which contains 25 hourly and over 200 3-hourly variables at 12km spatial resolution, can be used to track a plausible range of future climate conditions in direct reference to previously observed weather and enables a systematic exploration of the ways in which thermodynamic change influences the characteristics of extreme events.


## Journal reference
tbd


## Code reference
References for each minted software release for all code involved.  

These are generated by Zenodo automatically when conducting a release when Zenodo has been linked to your GitHub repository. The Zenodo references are built by setting the author order in order of contribution to the code using the author's GitHub user name.  This citation can, and likely should, be edited without altering the DOI.

If you have modified a codebase that is outside of a formal release, and the modifications are not planned on being merged back into a version, fork the parent repository and add a `.<shortname>` to the version number of the parent and construct your own name.  For example, `v1.2.5.hydro`.

Human, I.M. (2021, April 14). Project/repo:v0.1.0 (Version v0.1.0). Zenodo. http://doi.org/some-doi-number/zenodo.7777777

## Data reference

### Input data

NCAR. WPS V4 Geographical Static Data. https://www2.mmm.ucar.edu/wrf/users/download/get_sources_wps_geog.html

European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts. 2019, updated monthly. ERA5 Reanalysis (0.25 Degree Latitude-Longitude Grid) [Data set]. Research Data Archive at the National Center for Atmospheric Research, Computational and Information Systems Laboratory. https://doi.org/10.5065/BH6N-5N20.




### Output data
Reference for each minted data source for your output data.  For example:

Human, I.M. (2021). My output dataset name [Data set]. DataHub. https://doi.org/some-doi-number


## Contributing modeling software
| Model | Version | Repository Link | DOI |
|-------|---------|-----------------|-----|
| WPS | 4.0.1 | https://github.com/wrf-model/WPS | n/a |
| WRF | 4.0.1 | https://github.com/wrf-model/WRF | n/a |
| WRF | 4.2.1 | https://github.com/wrf-model/WRF | n/a |
| TempestExtremes | 08401d5 | https://github.com/ClimateGlobalChange/tempestextremes | n/a |


## Reproduce my experiment
Fill in detailed info here or link to other documentation that is a thorough walkthrough of how to use what is in this repository to reproduce your experiment.


1. Install the software components required to conduct the experiement from [Contributing modeling software](#contributing-modeling-software)
2. Download and install the supporting input data required to conduct the experiement from [Input data](#input-data)
3. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to re-create this experiment:

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `step_one.py` | Script to run the first part of my experiment | `python3 step_one.py -f /path/to/inputdata/file_one.csv` |
| `step_two.py` | Script to run the last part of my experiment | `python3 step_two.py -o /path/to/my/outputdir` |

4. Download and unzip the output data from my experiment [Output data](#output-data)
5. Run the following scripts in the `workflow` directory to compare my outputs to those from the publication

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `compare.py` | Script to compare my outputs to the original | `python3 compare.py --orig /path/to/original/data.csv --new /path/to/new/data.csv` |

## Reproduce my figures
Use the scripts found in the `figures` directory to reproduce the figures used in this publication.

| Script Name | Description | How to Run |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `generate_figures.py` | Script to generate my figures | `python3 generate_figures.py -i /path/to/inputs -o /path/to/outuptdir` |

